# 4.3 Priority

Priority is the order abilities are added to the stack (see SRD 1.6).

Whenever an ability is added to the stack, the turn creature has priority to add triggered abilities or a reaction to what was just added. Then, priority moves to the creature with the *lowest* initiative, and they declare their triggers/reactions, then the creature which goes before the last creature, then the one before them, and the one before them, and so on, until you reach the creature with the highest initiative.

This process is recursive. If anything is added to the stack, then priority starts from the bottom again.

Once nobody has any reactions/triggers, the stack is allowed to resolve.

## 4.3.1 Timing

There is a difference between optional and effects that occur "if" something happens, versus triggered effects that occur "when" something happens.

* If an ability says you can do something "when" something happens, the triggering event must be at the *top of the stack.* If the triggering ability is not at the top of the stack, then you cannot use the ability.
* If an ability says you can do something "if" something happens, then the triggering event can be *anywhere on the stack*, and you can use the ability at the first possible opportunity, so long as the conditions for using the ability still apply.

> ## Example:
> ```
> 1. Player A attacks Goblin A
> 2. stack resolves.
> ```
> 
> ```
> 1. Player A's attack hits!
> 2. Player A uses Disarming Strike
> 3. Player A attempts to use Tripping Strike
> ```
> 
> ```
> < The Stack >
> 1. [Tripping Strike, Player A]
> 2. [Disarming Strike, Player A]
> 3. [Attack hit, Player A]
> ```
> 
> Tripping strike says "when" you hit, not "if" you hit, therefore it cannot be used!
> 
> so, the only valid state for the stack is...
> 
> ```
> < The Stack >
> 1. [Disarming Strike, Player A]
> 2. [Attack hit, Player A]
> ```

