# 5.6 The Stack

The stack is a sequence of abilities that are either triggered by abilities, or that are activated as reactions.

Abilities are added to the top of the stack whenever they are used or triggered. Then, if no more abilities are added to the stack, the stack 'resovles', and the ability at the top of the stack resolves first, then the ability after that. and the ability after that, and so on.

> ## Example 1
> 
> 1. Player A casts Fireball.
> 2. Player B casts Absorb Elements.
> 3. Player C casts Counterspell, targetting B's Absorb Elements.
> 
> ```
> < The Stack >
> Counterspell
> Absorb Elements
> Fireball
> ```
> 
> How the stack resolves:
> 1. Counterspell resolves, and counters Absorb Elements.
> 2. Absorb Elements resolves, but since it was countered it does nothing.
> 3. Fireball resolves.

## 5.6.1 Immutability

Abilities cannot be removed from the stack, outside of when the stack is resolving.

## 5.6.2 Timing

There is a difference between optional and effects that occur "if" something happens, versus triggered effects that occur "when" something happens.

* If an ability says you can do something "when" something happens, the triggering event must be at the *top of the stack.* If the triggering ability is not at the top of the stack, then you cannot use the ability.
* If an ability says you can do something "if" something happens, then the triggering event can be *anywhere on the stack*, and you can use the ability at the first possible opportunity, so long as the conditions for using the ability still apply.

> ## Example:
> ```
> 1. Player A attacks Goblin A
> 2. stack resolves.
> ```
> 
> ```
> 1. Player A's attack hits!
> 2. Player A uses Disarming Strike
> 3. Player A attempts to use Tripping Strike
> ```
> 
> ```
> < The Stack >
> 1. [Tripping Strike, Player A]
> 2. [Disarming Strike, Player A]
> 3. [Attack hit, Player A]
> ```
> 
> Tripping strike says "when" you hit, not "if" you hit, therefore it cannot be used!
> 
> so, the only valid state for the stack is...
> 
> ```
> < The Stack >
> 1. [Disarming Strike, Player A]
> 2. [Attack hit, Player A]
> ```
